What is Java Servlet?
Servlets provide a component-based, platform-independent method 
for building Webbased applications, without the performance limitations of CGI programs.
Servlets have access to the entire family of Java APIs, including the JDBC API 
to access enterprise databases. This tutorial will teach you how to use Java Servlets 
to develop your web based applications in simple and easy steps.
A servlet is a Java programming language class that is used to 
extend the capabilities of servers that host applications accessed 
by means of a request-response programming model. 
Although servlets can respond to any type of request, they are commonly used to extend 
the applications hosted by web servers. For such applications, Java Servlet technology
defines HTTP-specific servlet classes.

The javax.servlet and javax.servlet.http packages provide interfaces and classes 
for writing servlets. All servlets must implement the Servlet interface, 
which defines life-cycle methods. When implementing a generic service, 
you can use or extend the GenericServlet class provided with the Java Servlet API. 
The HttpServlet class provides methods, such as doGet and doPost, 
for handling HTTP-specific services.

What Is a JSP Page?
A JSP page is a text document that contains two types of text: 
static data, which can be expressed in any text-based format (such as HTML, SVG, WML, and XML), 
and JSP elements, which construct dynamic content.

The recommended file extension for the source file of a JSP page is .jsp. 
The page can be composed of a top file that includes other files that contain either a complete JSP page or a fragment of a JSP page. 
The recommended extension for the source file of a fragment of a JSP page is .jspf.
JavaServer Pages (JSP) technology enables Web developers and designers to rapidly develop and easily maintain, 
information-rich, dynamic Web pages that leverage existing business systems. As part of the Java technology family, 
JSP technology enables rapid development of Web-based applications that are platform independent. JSP technology separates the user interface from content generation, 
enabling designers to change the overall page layout without altering the underlying dynamic content.
JavaServer Pages technology is an extension of the Java Servlet technology. 
Servlets are platform-independent, server-side modules that fit seamlessly into a Web server framework and can be used to extend 
the capabilities of a Web server with minimal overhead, maintenance, and support. Unlike other scripting languages, 
servlets involve no platform-specific consideration or modifications; they are application components that are downloaded, on demand, 
to the part of the system that needs them. Together, JSP technology and servlets provide an attractive alternative to other 
types of dynamic Web scripting/programming by offering: platform independence; enhanced performance; separation of logic from display; 
ease of administration; extensibility into the enterprise; and, most importantly, ease of use.